-: Whatever the canary deployment option,
whatever we have seen is nothing
but a service load balancing
with the selector send in labels.
But what should be the downside of this approach
and then what are the effective best effort options
available in the market,
we are going to look into in this two steps, okay?
So let's go back to our presentation
and if you see here,
the downside,
what is there is,
we are going to discuss now, right?
So let's consider
you are going to have PR 50%
and then canary 50% distribution you want to do
which is like your live running environment 50% distribution
and then canary and environment
you want to distribute the traffic 50%.
So with out of the box and Kubernetes
what are the options available is
only playing with the number of replicas
which is nothing but number of pods.
So let's consider
you have one part for PRD
and then one part for canary.
So you can have 50-50 distributed
or two parts for PRD
and then two parts for canary,
you can say 50-50 distributed.
In the same way you have a case
where you want to distribute 75% of your traffic to PRD
and then 25% of your traffic to canary.
So if that is the case,
definitely you need to have four parts in your deployment.
So 25 for this one,
25 for this,
and then 25 for this,
which is nothing
but three parts for prd
and then one part for canary.
In the same way
if you want 90% traffic distributing for PRD
and then 10% for canary,
in that case
you need to have nine parts for prd
and then one part for canary.
So like this based on the number of percentages,
means like based on the percentage distribution
how you want to distribute between canary
and then broad environments
you need to play with the number of replicas
which is nothing but pods.
So which is,
which will end up in incrementally increasing our ports
and then the distribution might not be as easy
and all these things.
But if you are dealing with very less amount
and then minor amount of ports and then stuff,
this will give us the benefit
instead of going to complex structured environments like,
istio AWS app mesh, okay?
So these are not easy,
they are defined
and then they are evolving.
But what I have seen with AWS app mesh or anything.
So things are not straightforward
and little bit complex.
So whether we want to increase
the complexity of our application,
then we can enter into these service mesh concepts.
If we are in need of those things for our applications.
If really not in the need of those things
are the features they're providing
is not really needed for us today
then we really don't need to go there.
If things solve with the simple things
then try to solve it in a simple way.
Now let's go to with the AWS app mesh or anything
how it is going to look like.
So if I say broad 95% and canary 95%, okay?
So still, or for only a single part
the 5% traffic will be routed
and if it is broad 70% in canary,
30% also still whatever the traffic coming
it'll try to route the from the entire traffic.
30% it will route to the canary
and 70% to the remaining ports.
So if you see here
in both cases the number of ports doesn't change
because the respective AWS app mesh
will sit in front of these respective ports
and act as a NY proxy
and then decide
how we need to send the traffic to these things.
You'll have app mesh related gateway
and then our,
you can call it in Kubernetes terms of
AWSs app mesh controller
and then you'll also have NY proxy
in front of this each parts sitting
so that they will control the traffic,
count the traffic
and then control to this parts.
In the same way,
even if you want prod 20% and canary 80% also
still this deployment might work for you
with only four number of parts.
Only thing is this,
this part is going to get overloaded.
So at that time maybe you will say
that canary three replicas
and then PR only one replica.
So like that also we can change and use it
but on on a overall basis,
whatever maybe
your percentage of distribution of traffic for prd
and canary are changing.
You really didn't change the number of pros in this parts,
in this entire design.
So that's the beauty of using the AWS app mesh or Istio.
So the best options for doing the candidate deployments
is Istio which is open source
or AWS app MesH,
AWS version of istio
with UI and then lots of stuff integrated
with AWS other services.
So that's about canary deployments end to end.
So in our next section we'll pick up another topic
and then move on.
So I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then,
bye-bye.
Thank you.